Overview
Structure
Belt Ranking System
Testing
Martial Arts Instructor
Martial Arts Instructor Trainer
Tactics and Techniques

What is MCMAP?
The focus of Marine Corps Martial Arts Program (MCMAP) is the personal development of
each Marine in a team framework using a standardized, trainable, and sustainable close combat fighting system. As a weapon-based system, all techniques are integrated with equipment, physical challenges, and tactics found on the modern battlefield. The MCMAP is
designed to increase the warfighting capabilities of individual Marines and units, enhance
Marines' self-confidence and esprit de corps, and foster the warrior ethos in all Marines. The MCMAP is a weapon-based system rooted in the credo that every Marine is a rifleman and
will engage the aggressor from 500 meters to close quarter combat.

Where did MCMAP come from?
The 1980s saw the development of the linear infighting neural-override engagement (LINE) system. The LINE system, developed in response to a perceived need for a standardized close combat system, was an important step in the evolution of a Marine Corps specific martial arts program. In 1996 a review of the LINE system, combat hitting skills, pugil stick training, and lessons learned from past programs were combined with the input of 10 subject matter experts from numerous martial arts disciplines to develop the Marine Corps Close Combat Program. This program combined all aspects of close combat into one program. In June 1999, Commandant James L. Jones detailed his vision of a martial arts program and, with his guidance, the close combat program underwent a period of testing and review that resulted in MCMAP. The MCMAP evolved into its present day form by combining the best combat-tested martial arts skills and time-honored close combat training techniques with proven Marine Corps core values and leadership training.

What is the structure of MCMAP?
The MCMAP consists of three disciplines: mental, character, and physical. 

Gaining an Advantage
A basic principle of martial arts is to use the aggressor's strength and momentum against him to gain more leverage than one's own muscles alone can generate, thereby gaining an advantage. Achieving surprise through deception or stealth can also greatly increase leverage. In close combat, Marines must exploit every advantage over an aggressor to ensure a successful outcome. This can include employing various weapons and close combat techniques that will present a dilemma to the aggressor. 

Speed

Adapting
Close combat can be characterized by chaos, friction, uncertainty, disorder, and rapid change. Each situation is a unique combination of shifting factors that cannot be controlled with precision or certainty. For example, a crowd control mission may call for Marines to employ various techniques ranging from nonlethal restraint to more forceful applications. Marines who adapt quickly will have a significant advantage. 
—————————————————

Tan Belt

Fundamentals of MCMAP
Ranges of close combat engagements
	target areas of the body
	weapons of the body
Punches
	muscle relaxation
	making a fist
	weight transfer
	rapid retraction
	telegraphing
	lead hand punch
	rear hand punch
	uppercut
	hook
Upper Body Strikes
	hammer fist
	eye gouge
	vertical elbow strike (low to high)
	forward horizontal elbow strike
	actions of the aggressor
Lower Body Strikes
	vertical knee strike
	front kick
	round kick
Introduction to Chokes
	rear choke
	figure four variation
Throws
	throw
	actions of the aggressor
Counters to Strikes
	counter to strikes
	counter to rear hand punch
	counter to rear leg kick
Counters to Chokes and Holds
	counter to rear choke
	counter to rear headlock
	counter to rear bear hug
Unarmed Manipulation
	compliance techniques
	distracter techniques
	joint manipulation
	wristlocks
	armbar takedown
Armed Manipulations
	rifle and shotgun retention 
	techniques
	blocks

——————————————————————————————


Gray Belt

Upper Body Strikes
	chin jab / palm heel strike
	knife hand strikes
	inside / reverse knife hand strike
	vertical knife hand strike
	elbow strikes
	rear horizontal elbow strike
	vertical elbow strike (high to low)
	actions of the aggressor
Lower Body Strikes
	horizontal knee strike
	side kick
	axe stomp
	actions of the aggressor
Front Choke
Hip Throw
Counters to Strikes
	counter to the lead hand punch
	counter to lead leg kick
Counters to Chokes and Holds
	counter to the front choke
	counter to the front headlock
	counter to the front bear hug
Unarmed Manipulation
	wristlock come-along
	takedown from a wristlock come-along and double flexi cuff
	escort position
	escort position takedown and single flexi cuff
Ground Fighting
	counter to mount position
	counter to guard position
————————————————————————————


Green Belt

Side Choke
Shoulder Throw
Counters to Strikes
	counter to a round punch
	counter to round kick
Lower Body Strikes
Unarmed Manipulations
	enhanced pain compliance
	reverse wristlock come-along
	controlling techniques
Knife Techniques
	counter to a vertical strike with follow-on techniques
	counter to forward strike with follow-on techniques
Weapons of Opportunity
	block for a vertical strike with follow-on strikes
	block for a forward strike with follow-on strikes
	block for a reverse strike with follow-on strikes
	block for a straight thrust with follow-on strikes
Ground Fighting
	armbar from mount position
	armbar from guard position
————————————————————————————


Brown Belt

Bayonet Techniques
	one-on-two engagement
	two-on-one engagement
	two-on-two engagement
Ground Fighting
	ground fighting techniques
	basic leg lock
Ground Chokes
	rear ground choke
	figure-4 variation of rear choke
	front choke
	side choke
Major Outside Reap Throw
	major outside reap throw aggressor pushing
	major  outside reap throw aggressor pulling
Unarmed Versus Handheld
	hollowing out with follow-on technique
	forward armbar counter
	reverse armbar counter
	bent armbar counter
Firearm Retention
	blocking technique
	armbar technique
	wristlock technique
	same side grab: from front
	same side grab: from rear
Knife Techniques
	block for a reverse strike
	block for a straight thrust
—————————————————————————————


Black Belt

Bayonet Techniques
	bayonet training stage one
	bayonet training stage two
	bayonet training stage three
	common error
Sweeping Hip Throw
Ground Fighting
	face rip from the guard
	straight armbar from a scarf hold
	bent armbar from a scarf hold
Unarmed Manipulation: Neck-Crank Takedown
Chokes
	triangle choke
	guillotine choke
Knee Bar
	rolling knee bar
	sitting knee bar
Counter to Pistol to the Head
	counter to pistol to the head two handed
	counter to pistol to the head one handed
Upper Body Strikes
	cupped hand strike
	face smash
Knife Techniques
	lead hand knife
	slashing techniques
	thrusting techniques
	reverse-grip knife techniques
Improvised Weapons
	garrote from the rear
	garrote from the front